I spent the better part of two years
renovating my house into the ultimate
Tech house and while the super fast 10
gig networking ball and Wi-Fi and custom
theater room are freaking awesome
there's a couple of things
that didn't exactly go according to plan
you see it wouldn't be much of an
ultimate Tech house if it wasn't smart
and as a father of three the first thing
that came to mind was automatic lights
so like any sane person would I
installed over 100 GE Jasco smart motion
switches only to discover that they were
so buggy that they've rendered my entire
Z-Wave smart home network pretty much
inoperable not very smart which maybe
wouldn't be so bad if even the dumb
functionality like the integrated motion
sensors worked freaking half decent come
on
hello luckily for me inavi another Smart
Switch company heard my cries and
decided to design a Smart Switch that
would solve all of my problems using
millimeter wave technology which can
detect people even when they aren't
moving after raising nearly half a
million dollars on Indiegogo and
spending many painful months on R&D I
finally have one in my hands and today
sponsored by homie and their homie Pro
Smart Hub we're going to start fresh and
we're going to try these out and
hopefully see the beginning of the end
of my smart at home troubles I really
hope these work because I don't think my
marriage is going to survive another
pool party with the lights turning off
every 5 minutes it won't before we get
too deep into the Cool Tech in these
let's talk about the problems that inavi
was trying to solve you guys already saw
that the motion sensors are anything but
senstive but there's a lot more for
starters if you have a three-way switch
so that's two switches controlling the
same fixture you can only have a motion
sensor on one of them and then a dummy
on the other side which for stairs can
be a downright safety issue because
it'll automatically turn the lights on
when you're going one way but not the
other this one drives me crazy I like to
have the lights off when I go to bed but
I want the motion sensors active in case
I need to get up but by the time I can
get away from them they activate again
and you can't reconfigure that this
one's been a real be in my Bonnet my old
switches will only fade on and fade off
which can be quite hard on Smart bulbs
and other non- dimmable fixtures
not that they behave much better with
dimable bulbs and you can see what I
mean here in the gaming room this is one
of the ones that still works the worst
part though is that they've gummed up my
zwave network so much that I can't even
adopt the last 20% or so of the switches
and I'm even having issues with non
Jasco devices like my baliy wave blinds
the blinds have been a particularly sore
spot for me because the switches are way
up here and I'm well vertically
challenged it's not like I want to
replace my switches we managed to get
Jasco to release the firmware for this
product which wasn't previously
available Unfortunately they never
updated it to fix any of this stuff and
when I reached out to a Z-Wave wizard
who offered to help
me they basically said wow I've never
seen anything this bad
before In fairness to Jasco part of the
problem is I have so many devices
but like it's a smart home that's the
idea and besides no amount of firmware
updates is going to fix that infrared
motion sensing it's kind of last
millennium's technology let's talk about
homie and first these new inabi switches
inavi was actually one of the Front
Runners when we were sampling options
for the house and they would have been
my first choice they've got a sick LED
bar that can help finding switches in
the dark show the dimming level and even
be programmed to display alerts and
stuff like that they worked flawlessly
on our testing the only problem is they
didn't have a motion dimmer or any kind
of presence detector at the time but now
they do despite many delays this is a
complicated product and they wanted to
make this work it's finally here let's
try it oh shoot I need a stubby uh LTD
store.com well the switch Works what
that's good so much more responsive well
it works like a normal switch which is
I'll never take for granted again but I
couldn't help noticing that the motion
sensing is not working it's not adopted
yet I don't know what the default
behavior is and this firmware is like
very Alpha okay let's adopt it just
testing to do that I could use my
existing home assistant instance and
Z-Wave stick but the problem with that
idea is that I don't have these new
inell switches yet I need to rely on
these Jasco ones for a while longer and
if I unpair them and start fresh
it is going to be a nightmare so instead
I'm turning to our sponsor homie and
we're going to be using the homie Pro to
start over for the uninitiated zwave is
a wireless low energy smart home
communication standard that operates in
the 900 MHz Bend which is great for me
because I need to not interfere with my
already also kind of mangled 2.4 GHz
Wi-Fi that's why I didn't want to go
with zigg but the homie pro hub can do
both without issue so we could try zigg
later for now um that was the physical
aspect of the setup so let's get it
configured let's add a new homie homie
Pro mhm mhm found homie Pro hey look at
that changes
color oh it supports 5 GHz Wi-Fi don't
take that for granted with smart home
stuff okay set up my home how many Flo
does your home have a couple I'm setting
up all the zones right now or at least
I'm
trying that this is seriously like a
pretty pretty clean interface well we're
set up the whole process took about 4
minutes now what while we could add that
switch as a generic Z-Wave device there
is an inovi app just not officially it's
still kind of in development so I got to
just manually add it typically when you
add one that has an app it'll pop up and
be like you should use the app when you
try to add it oh cool that doesn't work
yet everything's very Alpha by the way
shout out to homie for being absolute
homies and working within AI to get this
going for us they were literally fixing
things for me this morning
actual Chads and what's the benefit of
an app it just gives you specific
customization stuff and then we go back
to homie and in theory apps boom already
there sweet okay now we can add a device
now we can add a device we're going to
have to go to the switch though let's do
it did you add office yet yeah I mean
that's the only reason it took me like
four or five minutes to do this is
because adding on the rooms here we go
office and then connect device no belly
this is a smart present sensing dimmer
I'm sure they'll have a catchier name
for it at some point yeah uh do I need
to press the pair button three times
quickly and then do it again again yeah
twice more I mean let do just do it
again trust me your house is pretty
mangled in the 900 MHz range for
whatever reason I think it's pretty
mangled in every range right now and I
imagine that switch right next to it
it's probably not helping no probably
not we might need to move the Hub over
here just to get it to comend you know
that makes sense once you've got a whole
bunch of devices paired to it they'll
mesh up and that's not going to be a
problem but just to make life simpler
for ourselves he told me not to get
these GE switches and he takes every
possible opportunity to rub it I haven't
said it today yeah not today I tried to
get you to get the in ones and have
different motion sensors and I
understand why you didn't want to do
that but also I wanted it all clean and
integrated if you could go back would
you I think what I would have done is
just left regular switches until inavi
developed these but then inavi might
have never developed these if I didn't
make my video complaining that they
didn't exist yeah so I would change
nothing you know what's inside there
it's actually a raspy compute module
really yeah it's a cm4 oh cool yeah that
means it's good and should actually be
really well supported yeah that's a good
sign hey there we
go hey look at that device completed
perfect continue setup we are in the
office i' already picked that up and
then I guess we should just change this
to like office switch like this whole
thing is so beta still that they only
made like 50 of this version and we got
two of them to test out uh I mean it
works as a light switch right now let's
see if the motion's picking up oh look
at that motion alarm
yes oh and cool actually let's see so
with the lights all the way
on it's 50 wats of power and we should
see the light value the luminance go up
in a little bit here
probably let's see oh wow there's even
like
charts no data obviously cuz we just
adopted it I do today no no day yet okay
we're paired now which means in theory I
should be able to turn it
off probably it's a lot smarter than my
old ones and it has a bit of a delay on
this but I should be able to move oh it
definitely disects you oh well for
crying out loud okay well how do we make
it turn on with motion well I think we'd
have to leave for a bit and then come
back
okay oh I can do that I actually I don't
know what the timeout is like they
didn't send me a list of parameters it
seems that they match up with their old
style switches for the other stuff but
obviously the old style switches don't
have a motion sensor cool okay I'm going
to try it's still detecting motion what
it still detects us like most smart home
things it doesn't update all the time
because otherwise it' be way too much
traffic so it probably updates like once
a minute or something like that all
right we'll give it a sec I don't know
maybe we're in the reflection of
something right now
oh glass door you
know uh okay stuff like this is part of
the reason they're not actually going to
be using that sensor that's in that
switch in the production version there's
a new sensor which uses I think 79 GHz
instead of 24 GHz in that one and it has
a bunch more configuration like you can
tell it to only track in a small section
of the sensor and stuff like that
actually now is a good time for us to
explain this new sensor technology that
they're using the big game changer here
is millimeter wave the old ones use
passive infrared sensors which measure
radiation or heat from things like
humans cats Etc the new Switch uses
millimeter wave which is named after the
wavelength of radio signals in the 3 to
300ish GHz range it uses those to detect
presence and these sensors are so
accurate they can easily detect someone
even if they're trying to stay still
because just breathing is enough to
trigger them that makes them useful not
for just motion and being aware of
something that's broadly in the vicinity
but exactly how many things are in the
vicinity where they are and potentially
what doing it's like radar so cool a
little big brothery but cool any luck oh
I don't think it's working Jake oh no
no oh it did work on the other one it
showed on my side that when you walked
in that it was on but it wasn't on I
love Alpha Testing should we try the
other one they sent two of them who
knows maybe this one's bunk the most
important part for me is honestly not
the turning on when I go near them I
already got that I want them to not turn
off when I'm just sitting still in the
room while we're waiting why don't we
pair some blinds cuz I was having a heck
of a time getting any of those to pair
with home assistant okay I mean
realistically are you going to control
this area differently than those ones
actually maybe yes yeah okay so we'll
call this like the Nook yeah sure okay
um I could put it under kitchen maybe y
new
Zone kitchen mil and we'll put it part
of lovely connect device let's try it
all right oh wait we got to add that the
app perfect we can add the app new app I
don't know why it opens in a web browser
but it seems to work like beautifully so
whatever uh
Bali there's a new version of my blinds
that has Bluetooth that makes them a
little easier to configure and stuff it
would have been like you probably missed
the cut off by like a couple months nice
I had an absolute demon of a time trying
to get these things to pair with my
setup like they just wouldn't Nook
middle
blinds I guess okay I mean you're not
going to need to address them
individually but it would be good to
have it set if you did have to do that
okay and then I guess this one okay um
how I mean I I don't need a I can read
I'm
fine I can't believe these are just
pairing yeah did you try them before I
did but setup like did it work what do
you mean like did you try them with my
setup before with no no they don't work
yeah
I guess that's the issue with a mesh
network if it's made up of devices that
are just a mesh get it a mesh a
[Music]
mess anyway the point is windows are one
of the main things you'd want to build
automations for because you know Energy
Efficiency and stuff like that and I
just haven't been able to do it cuz I
haven't been able to pair these bloody
things to my broken Z-Wave Network this
is great and the homie hub's not even
that close anymore now that we've got a
couple light switches paired to it the
mesh is happening fortunately homie is
compatible with a ton of other products
so if you don't already have Z-Wave
blinds in your house you can use
something like the rise Smart Shade
system which can turn normal blinds into
Smart Ones in order to control all these
as a group I'm going to use something
called a flow which is what homie calls
its automation system I went ahead and
created one that says when this flow
started that's something you would just
like manually Trigger or trigger with
another flow and then set all the
positions to 100% which is to open all
of them the opposite one close sets them
all to 0% and then when we hit
go hey there we
go for those that want even more control
they also have advanced flows in the web
version of the homie app it's still easy
to use everything is drag and drop but
it gives you a lot more flexibility for
example I made an advanced flow that
pulls our subscriber count from the
YouTube API that way I can make it so
Linus's home automations only work if
the subscriber count goes up that day
now we get to try the light switch what
do you think Jake motion going to work
doesn't seem like
it they clearly weren't working are you
kidding me what do you mean they clearly
were working they weren't working yeah
but we could have checked the thing to
see I already did and it detected it
yeah it still says yes as of 20 minutes
ago I think there's something in this
room that moves enough that it's
triggering
still we might have to try it in a
different room oh you know what lonus
look what's right right in front of the
light switch smart thermostat no turn
around what the vines no those are fake
yeah but they'll move they're not going
to move like with the HV fact they might
I reckon we try it in a bathroom or
something where like nothing's going on
there's a reason they're changing the
sensor and there is no tuning parameters
right now it will be better credit to
homie though their stuff has worked
flawlessly so far I know this actually
been great it it wait it just worked it
worked it worked it it picked you up
from under the door crack well like like
I said it's really sensitive and this
light switch is pointed at the door so
even like walking over here could be
enough of like an air pressure
differential to move the door enough to
trigger that like it's not a great
position to have a millimeter wave
sensor you know what I mean but but with
the other one we could set no zones for
it right yeah over to here would be like
detection and then here the door should
we try one more different spot with the
other light switch you just want me to
zap myself I mean kind of we want to do
another demo in the bathroom downstairs
so I'm just throwing in one of in's red
series switches so I at least have a
working switch in this room it's been
driving us crazy while we've been trying
to scrapbook yes I scrapbook there's
nothing wrong with that in this bathroom
there should not be anything that can
move so hopefully we can get a good
clean demo here I'm actually super
excited though that these are so
sensitive because that bathroom upstairs
man if you sit and you know play mobile
games or read something on the toilet
you're stuck in the dark and I already
showed you guys how hard it is to
reactivate the motion sensors I have
now you're figuring out your business in
the dark until you're all the way up
when that happens so this is going to
be awesome with proper presence
detection those lights in there draw 25
WTS if you're wondering wa no wait they
have power monitoring that's pretty cool
they also have light sensors so if it's
like really bright in a certain room and
you don't want the lights to turn on
automatically when it's bright you can
set it up to do that how would that work
with homie you could say like if it
turns on and this is too high then don't
sick yeah
okay okay it works you hadn't even
walked in yet now the question
is how sensitive is
it well there's probably a timeout
right I don't I don't think it will
trigger again until the motion is like
cleared for a little bit and then
triggered again knowing in AI I'm sure
there'll be configuration options for
that too there just isn't right now or
at least I don't know what they are it
still knows I'm in here though right oh
yeah cool why need you walk out for a
second and then try it again okay I'll
walk out let's see I'm kind of stoked on
how simple homie is it's really simple
why did I do the whole home assistant
thing again well I don't know hey look
no it's clear okay so it's about a
minute run in there again it might be
exactly a minute I want to see just how
sensitive it is you're going to sneak up
on it yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah just just
hold on dude the door is going to
trigger this a l hold on I'm going to
just I don't think it can see me down
there ow my finger is
stuck okay well yeah oh that's why it
couldn't see cuz of the
molding dude dude the second I was clear
of this occlusion here it was
on I don't think we're going to fool
it it still says motion buddy you're
just wasting your time I give up there's
no way I'm going to be able to hide from
this thing which is a good thing you
want a presence detection system to work
like this so that's good now you can
Doom scroll on the in peace I think
the best thing about today is just how
painless everything was I'm used to
having range issues that I need to sort
out with like USB extensions on my zwave
stick but instead the homie Pro just
immediately worked cuz I can put it
anywhere I want instead of it being
stuck in my concrete basement they've
got a ton of different solutions so
while the homie Pro is a little on the
pricier side for some they also have the
homie Bridge which is a much cheaper Hub
that can be used as an extension for the
homie Pro or can be used Standalone with
their Cloud software in a subscription
for myself I just like having everything
running locally and fortunately homie
does have that option and doesn't
require subscription for that we'll have
links to homie and the rest of the stuff
that we showed off in the video
description before we wrap up there's a
couple other things we should highlight
from homie their dashboards are in beta
they provide a customizable visual
interface to control and monitor your
smart home devices there's a high degree
of personalization you can have
real-time control and insights into
things like temperature energy usage or
security status it's available on the
homey app for IOS and Android and we
haven't even shown you some of the other
really cool features like homie mve
they allow you to quickly capture and
set the lighting in your home by
creating custom moods or choosing from
pre-made ones and while Jake showed you
guys homie flows there's a whole other
level of customization with homie script
which I think is more for the Jakes of
the world and I probably wouldn't touch
what I will touch is those finished
switches and then maybe between now and
then we can figure out do I keep home
assistant or do I just go with something
simpler I don't know homies seems to
work pretty good and they're homies
if you guys enjoyed this video why not
check out the one where we originally
installed my Jasco switches it was kind
of a nightmare but hey what do you mean
it kind of a nightmare we're still
living in it sometimes that's fun for
you guys